Section focus handling (#286)
wpaccessibility/wp-a11y-docs: docs/topics/code/focus-handling/focus-trapping.md

---
title: Focus trapping
layout: default
parent:  Focus handling
nav_order: 3

> description: Sustain focus within a responsive menu or dialog component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Constrain focus within a responsive menu or dialog component.
```

---

> # Sustain keyboard focus within a responsive menu or dialog component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Constrain keyboard focus within a responsive menu or dialog component
```

When moving the keyboard focus inside a component like a responsive menu or modal, make sure that the focus doesn't drop out of the modal when the user tabs further after the last focusable element. This is called **focus trapping**, and unlike a [keyboard trap]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/code/focus-handling/keyboard-trap/), it gives the user a way out.

> Focus trapping is failing when a component stays open while the keyboard focus moves out of the component to the underlying content. The focus then may be invisible or unfinable to the user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When focus trapping fails, the component stays open while keyboard focus moves out of the component to the underlying content. The focus location may then be invisible or unfindable to the user. 
```

Keep the focus while tabbing within the component:

- Move the keyboard focus to the first tabable element after the last focusable element.

> - Give the user a clear way out of the component by, for example, a close (X) or a confirmation button and also by using the Escape key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Give the user a clear way out of the component. For example, a close or confirmation button and also by using the Escape key.
```
